In this day and age, all of us will at some point be made to present something, whether this is a presentation on themes for an eight-grade book report, a quarterly report to inform your colleagues why your sales went down, or mayhaps giving your third lecture of the day. 

Seeing as everyone has to deal with presentations, and for many people they are a daily occurance, one might stand to reason that the methods for giving presentations have long been streamlined and optimised, to ensure that all those who take part in presentations feel as optimally supported as possible. Yet it seemed to us that naught was less true when starting this presentation, as through interactions with lecturers and lecturees as well as specific courses on giving presentations we were made aware of the many grievances of lecturers. One of the most important things in presentating is audience interaction as well as the use of gestures to convey meaning to your audience and keep their attention, but when we look at the standard presentation set-up, we see that the presenters seem almost chained to to a desk or podium, unable to make full use of the room and interact with their audience, due to the simple fact that their presentation medium is a laptop that is plugged in at said desk or podium and they need to be at this laptop to navigate through their slides.

However, simply observing things in our day to day lives is not a good basis for scientific research, so before we took this observed grievance as fact, we needed to know whether this is in fact an issue that presenters struggle with or not, and in the case that it were so, whether we could create a solution to this problem, and attempt to support these presenters in a manner that allows them to present in the manner that they deem optimal.

To answer the former of these questions we started by looking at our related work, so that we could find if others before us have observed this issue and what existing solutions exist for it. On top of this we also decided to hold a first survey, asking people, mainly in academia but also some industry professionals, questions like how often they presented, what presentation tools they used and whether or not they have experienced any issues in their use of these presentation tools. 

The survey results were in line with previous related work, stating that PowerPoint is still the leading presentation software, and that most presenters seem to use only a laptop with no other tools to aid them in presenting. These people seem to state that they are 'content' and 'have no issues with their current way of presenting' but will then also say that they would be happy to have a tool that offers them extra functionality, many of them giving their own suggestions as to what needs they would like for such a tool to meet, seeming to imply that even if they claim to be content with their current way of doing things, that it is not the optimal way of doing things.

Based on the needs expressed in the survey and existing related work we started desinging some low-fidelity prototypes, in close contact with our survey respondents to have immediate feedback on that which they found lacking or parts especially conforming to their desires. Once we had established a rigid enough low-fidelity prototype, we moved onto implementing it.

During our implementation phase our prototype remained less rigid than assumed; in working out the fine details of the implementation, some flaws and shortcomings in the prototype became clear, and due to being in close contact with many peers, new ideas were still found on a semi-regular basis. Thus evolved our protoype not only due to having to overcome the emerging weaknesses, but also through the aid of the collective imagination of my peers.

After having finished our implementation, we deemed it necessary to have another user study to find out whether our implementation could be counted as a solution to the problem stated in our research question, and thus seeing if our implementation offers substantially useful benefits to the presentation experience as to lower the threshold for it to be (widely) adopted into use.